Hi, today I'm going to spend a few minutes
giving a chart summary of Direct ML,
the hardware accelerate machine learning platform
on windows.
If you're watching this talk on a windows 10 PC,
chances are you already have Direct ML in your computer.
So let's dive in.
Slide two.
slide-2
Direct ML is a hardware accelerated compute API
for deep learning on Windows.
Windows is a very diverse ecosystem
of over a billion devices now running windows 10,
with literally hundreds of different graphics chip sets
and thousands of different driver versions
from the hardware vendors across the industry.
It is fundamentally challenging to build an API
that could scale across this broad variety of hardware
from a compute stick, a laptop
to a power workstation and server.
The goal of Direct ML is to provide best performance
by leveraging the latest hardware features in modern PC
while providing an implementation that work reliably
in our different hardware platforms, old and new.
We put together a robust conformance test
and driver certification process
to ensure a high degree of consistency.
So a model works the same way on any windows PC.
We know that our customers value high performance.
That's how they get the benefit of the hardware purchase,
but equally important,
they also value correctness and consistency of result,
regardless of the hardware platform they're running it on.
Say if a model would predict
that what you're holding in your hand is a banana.
It shouldn't matter if you run it on a powerful workstation
or on your daughter's laptop PC,
a banana is a banana anywhere.
That integrity of result is very important to us,
because you could have a model that for instance,
predicts the development of breast cancer cells.
So being reliable is truly mission critical.
Slide three.
slide-3
Let's take a closer look at Direct ML
and see what it's made of.
Direct ML is a computational graph
of neural network operations.
It's designed to be fully compatible with DirectX 12
and to sit on top of the Microsoft compute driver model.
Developers who are familiar with DirectX 12
should feel right at home with Direct ML.
The resource model,
the synchronization between the CPU and GPU,
are just native tactics primitives.
It implements all the compute kernels
as HLSL compute shaders.
This means that Direct ML can work on any PC
that support their compute,
which in practice is any windows 10 PC in the market today.
The Microsoft compute device model
is the underlying contract
that any compute device on windows implements.
This includes of course, any windows GPU,
but also of all other AI accelerators supporting it.
It allows developers to leverage
different hardware architectures through the same API.
On the performance side,
Direct ML opportunistically use shader models intrinsics
exposed in the driver or model
to tap into native hardware compute instructions
for performance critical computations.
Additionally,
it supports architecture specific
machine learning operations
for performance critical operations,
such as matrix multiply or convolution
through the system level contract
known as metacommands.
Slide four.
slide-4
Direct ML is used as the GPU backend
for the windows ML API,
to accelerate ONNX operations on the GPU.
Windows ML is an easy to use model loader API,
that supports many major apps on windows today.
The open source ONNX Runtime C API,
makes Direct ML functionality available
to developers building for a cross platform solution.
Direct ML itself, is available as a standalone API
in the DirectX API family.
For the most demanding scenarios,
where frame on frame performance is critical
such as in real time or gaming scenarios.
Slide five.
slide-5
Direct ML is also used to accelerate training
of machine learning models with TensorFlow.
A new GPU accelerated device runtime in TensorFlow
is built on top of DirectML
to extend the TensorFlows GPU support to any windows GPU
from all the GPU vendors across the windows ecosystem.
We have launched data developer preview last month.
It is available now for download from PyPy,
with the support of both the Linux and Windows build.
The Linux build can be used within the windows subsystem
for Linux or WSL.
We are actively working on open-sourcing this project
to the public in the coming weeks
to increase our touch points with our community.
So stay tuned.
Slide six.
slide-6
I have a few demos that should help illustrate
the performance of the Direct ML
in some important customer scenarios.
For the best viewing experience,
since all of these demos are visual,
you may want to enlarge the video window size to full screen
by clicking the full screen icon at the bottom of this clip.
Every one of these demos is publicly available.
I will provide the links at the end of this slide
so you can check them out separately.
Our first demo today is a system developed
at GE healthcare called Sono CNS.
This program runs a Windows ML model
that automatically measures key matrices
of fetal brains from the ultra sound images,
for early diagnosis of the fetus health.
The analysis is done using a computer vision model
with convolution networks that identify key features
in the images.
Slide seven.
slide-7
Our next demo is in creative content scenario.
It's a new AI feature in Adobe Premier Pro
called Auto Reframe.
This feature use machine learning models
to analyze the video frames
and automatically crop each frame
to a different aspect ratio
by centering the frames around the movement
of the main subject in the footage.
This demo was given on a live stage,
running on the laptop PC.
As you can see, it only takes about a second
to analyze over 200 frames of its
approximately ten second video footage.
That performance with Direct ML
even on a laptop GPU is very impressive.
Slide eight.
slide-8
Our next demo is one of our Direct ML
public samples in GitHub called the Super Resolution Demo.
This is one of the high framerate scenarios
where the performance budget
for each model inference call is extremely small.
Each frame update of a game rendering loop,
runs a model that does an automatic upsample
of the displayed content on the fly.
This allows a type of game,
which normally requires huge graphics asset
to render the content at 4K
to use a lower resolution variants of the asset,
while still preserving the visual quality on the screen.
In this sample,
each inference has only between four to eight milliseconds
to complete or risking rendering glitch or drop frames.
So the performance of the ML step
is absolutely critical here.
Slide nine.
slide-9
Our next demo shows the latest versions
of the famous object detection model, YOLO V4.
Here the model analyzes each video frame
to identify areas of interests.
YOLO is one of the more complex convolution networks
with a significant compute workload.
Slide 10.
slide-10
And last but not least,
this is another one of our public samples
called style transfer.
This is a fun model that applies
a previously trained artistic style
to the input video frames
to create an interesting visual effect.
I hope you enjoy these demos and this short presentation.
I'm leaving out the links on the next slide
for your references.
slide-11
Thank you very much.